Let's start with the basic definition of sets in Mathematics.
A set is a collection of well-defined objects and non-repetitive elements that is - a set with 1,2,3,4,3,4,5,2,2, and 3 as its elements can be written as {1,2,3,4,5}
--> No repetition of elements is allowed in sets.

DEFINATION :: “A set is a data structure, having unordered, unique, and unindexed elements.”
Elements in a set are also called entries and no two entries could be the same within a set.
You can simply understand that sets in python are data types containing unique elements. 

If you want to use sets in your python programs, you should know the following  properties of sets in Python:
  --> Sets are iterable(iterations can be performed using loops)
  --> They are mutable (can be updated by adding or removing entries)
  --> There is no duplication (two same entries do not occur)
  
STRUCTURE::
Elements of the sets are written in between two curly brackets and are separated with a comma, and in this simple way, we can create a set in Python.
The other way of forming a set is by using a built-in set constructor function. 
Unlike the dictionary, sets are not just restricted to Python language, but nearly all commonly used programming languages have sets included in them as a data type. 
Examples of these languages include C++, Java, etc., even languages such as Swift and JavaScript support sets.

RESTRICTIONS:
Everything has a limit to its functionality, there are some limitations on working with sets too.

--> Once a set is created, you can not change any of its items, although you can add new items or remove previous but updating an already existing item is not possible.
--> There is no indexing in sets, so accessing an item in order or through a key is not possible, 
although we can ask the program if the specific keyword we are looking for is present in the set by using “in” keyword or by looping through the set by using a for loop
--> Despite these restrictions, sets play a very important role in the life of a python programmer. 

SET METHODS:
There are already a lot of built-in methods that you can use for your ease
Some of the methods you can use with sets include union(), discard(), add(), isdisjoint(), etc. and their functionality is the same as in the sets in mathematics. 

