"for" loop is also just a programming function that iterates a statement or a number of statements based on specific boundaries under certain defined conditions,that are the basis of the loop.
Note that the statement that the loop iterates must be present inside the body of the loop.

EXAMPLE::
For a beginner or layman, the concept of the loop could be easily understood using an example of songs playlist. When we like a song, we set it on repeat, 
and then it automatically starts playing again and again.
In programming, we set a part of code for looping and the same part of the code executes until the certain condition that we provided is fulfilled. 
You must be thinking that in song playlist the song keeps on playing until we stop it, the same scenario can be made in case of loops, 
if we put a certain condition that the loop could not fulfill, then it will continue to iterate endlessly until stopped by force.

An example of where loop could be helpful to us could be in areas where a lot of data has to be printed on the screen and physically writing that many printing statements could be difficult or in some cases impossible.
Loops are also helpful in searching data from lists, dictionary, and tuple.

Why do we use loops?
  Complex problems can be simplified using loops
  Less amount of code required for our program
  Lesser code so lesser chance or error
  Saves a lot of time
  Can write code that is practically impossible to be written
  Programs that require too many iterations such as searching and sorting algorithms can be simplified using loops

How to write a for loop?
For loop basically depends upon the elements it has to iterate instead of the statement being true or false

 Advantages of loops:

The reusability of code is ensured
  We do not have to repeat the code again and again, just have to write it one time
  We can transverse through data structures like list, dictionary, and tuple
  We apply most of the finding algorithms through loops

EXAMPLE ::
list1 = [ ["Harry", 1], ["Larry", 2],
          ["Carry", 6], ["Marie", 250]]
dict1 = dict(list1)

for item in dict1:
    print(item)
    
 OUTPUT::
 Harry
 Larry
 Carry
 Marie
