“Operators in Python can be defined as symbols that assist us to perform certain operations. 
The operations can be between variable and variable, variable and value, value and value”

Operators that Python Language supports are:

Arithmetic Operators
Assignment Operators
Comparison Operators
Logical Operators
Identity Operators
Membership Operators
Bitwise Operators

We must remember most of them from our basic mathematics that we studied in school. May be except the last one, that might be new for some of us. To understand bitwise fully, we must have the basic knowledge of the conversion of decimal into binary. For example, the binary for the first five number is:

0001
0010
0011
0100
0101
And so on.

Arithmetic Operators:
Basic mathematical operations such as addition, multiplication, subtraction, division, etc. are performed with the help of arithmetic Operations. 
It contains nearly all operations that we can perform with the help of a calculator. Symbols for such operators include *, /, %, -, //, etc.    

Assignment Operators:
The assignment operator is used to assign values to a variable. In some cases, we have to assign a variable’s value to another variable, 
in such cases the value of the right operand is assigned to the left operand. 
One of the basic signs from which we can recognize an assignment operator is that it must have an equal-to(=) sign. 
Some commonly used assignment operators include +=, -=, /=, etc.

Comparison Operators:
They are also known as relational operators. They compare the values on either side of the operator and decide the relation among them. 
Commonly used comparison operators include ==, >, < , >=,etc.

Logical Operators:
Logical operators perform logical AND, OR and NOT, operations. 
They are usually used in conditional statements to join multiple conditions. AND, OR and NOT keywords are used to perform logical operations.

Identity Operators:
Identity operator checks if two operands share the same identity or not,
which means that they share the same location in memory or different. “is” and “is not” are the keywords used for identity operands.

Membership Operators:
 Membership operand checks if the value or variable is a part of a sequence or not. 
 The sequence could be string, list, tuple, etc. “in” and “not in” are keywords used for membership operands.

Bitwise Operators:
Bitwise operands are used to perform bit by bit operation on binary numbers. 
First, we have to change the format of the number from decimal to binary and then compare them using AND, OR, XOR, NOT, etc.
